.TH BINMAN\-TEXT 1 2016\-02\-13 5.0.1
.SH NAME
.PP
binman\-text \- extract embedded manpage sources
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fB\fCbinman\-text\fR [\fIOPTION\fP]... [\fIFILE\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Prints the "embedded manpage source" extracted from the given \fIFILE\fP or STDIN.
.SS Embedded manpage sources
.PP
An "embedded manpage source" is an 
.BR md2man (5) 
document that is embedded in your
script, typically inside a multi\-line block comment or "here document"; or in
a header comment composed of single\-line comments near the top of your script.
.SS In multi\-line comments
.PP
In the former case, where it's possible to write a freeform block of text, the
embedded manpage source must be delimited by \fB\fC=begin\fR and \fB\fC=end\fR lines, which
start with their respective delimiters and, optionally, continue with a single
space followed by any amount and kind of characters until the end of line.
.PP
To illustrate, here is the simplest case:
.PP
.RS
.nf
=begin
This is an embedded manpage source!
=end
.fi
.RE
.PP
Next, we can add decorations after the delimiters:
.PP
.RS
.nf
=begin \\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\
This is an embedded manpage source!
=end //////////////////////////////
.fi
.RE
.PP
Similarly, using different characters this time:
.PP
.RS
.nf
=begin abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz'"
This is an embedded manpage source!
=end 0123456789!@#$%^&*()=+\-_:;,\\/?
.fi
.RE
.SS In single\-line comments
.PP
In the latter case, the embedded manpage source is expected to be found in a
contiguous block of single\-line comments that begins at the top of the script
(optionally after a \fB\fC#!\fR line, \fB\fCcoding:\fR line, and any number of blank lines)
and ends at the first blank line.  Each single\-line comment inside this block
must begin with a \fB\fC#\fR character and may, optionally, continue with a single
space followed by any amount and kind of characters until the end of line.
.PP
To illustrate, here is the simplest case:
.PP
.RS
.nf
# This is an embedded manpage source!
.fi
.RE
.PP
Next, we can add a \fB\fC#!\fR line at the top:
.PP
.RS
.nf
#!/bin/sh
# This is an embedded manpage source!
.fi
.RE
.PP
Next, we can add a \fB\fCcoding:\fR line after \fB\fC#!\fR:
.PP
.RS
.nf
#!/bin/sh
# coding: utf\-8
# This is an embedded manpage source!
.fi
.RE
.PP
Or, using the Emacs coding system syntax:
.PP
.RS
.nf
#!/bin/sh
# \-*\- encoding: utf\-8 \-*\-
# This is an embedded manpage source!
.fi
.RE
.PP
Next, we can add blank lines between them:
.PP
.RS
.nf
#!/bin/sh
# coding: utf\-8

# This is an embedded manpage source!
.fi
.RE
.PP
Here is another permutation of the above:
.PP
.RS
.nf
#!/bin/sh

# This is an embedded manpage source!
.fi
.RE
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\fC\-h\fR [\fIPATTERN\fP], \fB\fC\-\-help\fR [\fIPATTERN\fP]
Show this help manual and optionally search for \fIPATTERN\fP regular expression.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR md2man (5), 
.BR binman-roff (1), 
.BR binman-html (1), 
.BR binman (1)
