.TH BINMAN\-RAKE 1 2016\-02\-13 5.0.1
.SH NAME
.PP
binman\-rake \- run 
.BR rake (1) 
tasks from 
.BR binman (1)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.PP
\fB\fCbinman\-rake\fR [\fIOPTION\fP]... [\fITASK\fP]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This program lets you run 
.BR rake (1) 
tasks provided by 
.BR binman (1) 
without having
to create a special file named \fB\fCRakefile\fR that contains the following snippet:
.PP
.RS
.nf
require 'binman/rakefile'
.fi
.RE
.PP
If no \fITASK\fP is specified, then the \fB\fCbinman\fR task is run by default.
.SH TASKS
.TP
\fB\fCbinman\fR
Runs the \fB\fCbinman:man\fR and \fB\fCbinman:web\fR tasks, in that order.
.TP
\fB\fCbinman:mkd\fR
Extracts manual page sources embedded in scripts found in your \fB\fCbin/\fR
directory and saves them as \fB\fCman/man1/*.1.markdown\fR files, which can
then be rendered as HTML or UNIX manual pages using 
.BR md2man-rake (1).
.TP
\fB\fCbinman:man\fR
Builds UNIX manual pages from scripts found in your \fB\fCbin/\fR directory.
It also runs the \fB\fCmd2man:man\fR task, provided by 
.BR md2man-rake (1), 
which
builds UNIX manual pages from \fB\fC*.markdown\fR, \fB\fC*.mkd\fR, and \fB\fC*.md\fR files
found in or beneath the \fB\fCman/\fR subdirectory in your working directory.
.TP
\fB\fCbinman:web\fR
Builds HTML manual pages from scripts found in your \fB\fCbin/\fR directory.
It also runs the \fB\fCmd2man:web\fR task, provided by 
.BR md2man-rake (1), 
which
builds HTML manual pages from \fB\fC*.markdown\fR, \fB\fC*.mkd\fR, and \fB\fC*.md\fR files
found in or beneath the \fB\fCman/\fR subdirectory in your working directory.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\fC\-h\fR [\fIPATTERN\fP], \fB\fC\-\-help\fR [\fIPATTERN\fP]
Show this help manual and optionally search for \fIPATTERN\fP regular expression.
.TP
\&...
Anything else is passed to 
.BR rake (1); 
run \fB\fCrake \-\-help\fR for documentation.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
.BR rake (1), 
.BR binman (1), 
.BR md2man-rake (1)
